Result reaction docs (#59)
drasi-project/docs: docs/content/how-to-guides/configure-reactions/configure-drasi-result-reaction/_index.md

title: "Configure a Drasi Result Reaction"
linkTitle: "Configure a Drasi Result Reaction"
weight: 60
description: >
    Learn how to configure a Drasi Result Reaction
---

The Drasi Result Reaction allows users to retrieve the current result set, or the result set at a specified timestamp, for a particular Continuous Query. This reaction provides an endpoint accessible via HTTP GET requests.

> 

Reviewer: We should point out that this Reaction is typically used for programmatic access to a query result. I dont think that comes across well, especially with all the curl examples. Maybe we could have examples in curl and/or javascript etc. And talk about the output of the Result reaction as an API that another program is goignt to call. What are the inputs/outputs. Maybe do a typespec spec for it.

> ## Requirements

Reviewer 2: Not sure if we should have this `Requirements` section for every reaction type?
@agentofreality thoughts?

Reviewer: We should aim to make each How To page a self contained, so people dont need to jump back and forth too much. If there is some replication, i think that is OK, but we need to make sure the requirements are real requirements.

On the computer from where you will create the Drasi Debug Reaction, you need to install the following software:
- [Drasi CLI](/reference/command-line-interface/) 
- [Kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl)

> You should also be proficient in creating HTTP requests using tools such as [curl](https://curl.se/) or [Postman](https://www.postman.com/).

Reviewer 2: This would only be true for debugging scenarios. There may be an app that connects to it.

## Creating the Reaction
To create a Reaction, execute the `drasi apply` command as follows:

```text

> drasi apply -f my-reaction.yaml -n drasi-namespace

Reviewer 2: I don't think we need to mention the namespace option in every example, if it is covered in the CLI reference?
@agentofreality thoughts?

Author: I can remove the `-n` from the snippet, and add a short sentence that talks about the namespace in the description below

## Inspecting the Reaction
As soon as the Reaction is created it will start running, subscribing to the specified list of Continuous Queries and processing changes to the Continuous Query results.

You can check the status of the Reaction using the `drasi list` command:

```text
drasi list reaction
```

Or including a target namespace:

```text
drasi list reaction -n drasi-namespace
```

This will return a simple list of all Reactions in the default (or specified) namespace and their overall status. For example:

```
        ID              | AVAILABLE
------------------------+------------
  quick-result-reaction | true
```

If an error has occurred during the creation or operation of a Reaction, the `AVAILABLE` column will contain the error text instead of `true` or `false`.

For more details about the Reaction you can use the [drasi describe](/reference/command-line-interface#drasi-describe) command:

```text
drasi describe reaction quick-result-reaction
```

This will return the full definition used to create the Reaction along with more detailed status information.

## Using the Result Reaction

> Because the Drasi Debug Reaction is running inside a Kubernetes cluster, you need to enable access to the port through which you can send HTTP requests. The easiest way to do this is to setup a port forward using `kubectl` and the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because the Result Reaction is running inside a Kubernetes cluster, you need to enable access to the port through which you can send HTTP requests. For development purposes, the easiest way to do this is to setup a port forward using `kubectl` and the following command:
```

```bash

> kubectl port-forward -n <drasi-namespace> services/quick-result-reaction-gateway 8080:8080

Reviewer 2: I think we need to say something about exposing this service to the outside world for production purposes?

Author: I have added this part before the command:

The only way to retrieve the result set from the Result Reaction is through sending HTTP GET requests to the endpoints. For development and testing purposes, since the Result Reaction lives in a Kubernetes pod, it needs to be exposed using Kubernetes port-forwarding. This allows you to send HTTP GET requests to the Result Reaction endpoint from your local machine or from another application. Use the following command to set up port-forwarding for the Result Reaction deployed in the previous steps:

Author: Should we also mention that it is possible to create an ingress for production scenarios?

```

The `-n` flag specifies the Kubernetes namespace containing the Drasi environment where you installed the Reaction. The name used to reference the Reaction has the structure`services/<reaction_name>-gateway`.

> This will make the Drasi Debug Reaction UI available through port 8080 on the computer where you ran the port-forward command. You can now send GET requests to `localhost:8080` to retrieve the result set of a particular query. The examples below use `curl` and showcase various ways of using the Result Reaction

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This will make the Result Reaction endpoint available through port 8080 on the computer where you ran the port-forward command. You can now send GET requests to `localhost:8080` to retrieve the result set of a particular query. The examples below use `curl` and showcase various ways of using the Result Reaction
```

#### Retrieving the current result set
The following command will retrieve the current result set for a ContinuousQuery with the name `query1`
```bash
curl -X GET "localhost:8080/query1"
```

#### Retrieving the result set at a particular timestamp
**NOTE:** This feature requires the `view` field of the Continuous Query to be set to `true`, and the `view/retentionPolicy` field to be set to `all` or `expire`. For more information, please navigate to this [link](/concepts/continuous-queries/#configuration).

> The following command will retrieve the result set for a ContinuousQuery with the name `query1` at timestamp `123456789`.

Reviewer 2: What is the format of the timestamp?

Author: I think it will be in `ms`. I have added a section for this

```bash
curl -X GET "localhost:8080/query1/123456789"
```

## Modifying the Reaction

> Currently, Drasi does not support the modification of existing Reactions. You must [Delete the Reaction](#deleting-the-reaction), make changes to the Reaction definition file, and [Create the Reaction](#creating-the-reaction) again.

Reviewer 2: This is not true, you should be able to just reapply it.

      throw new Error(`HTTP error! Status: ${response.status}`);
    }
    return response.json(); 
  })
  .then(data => {
    // Output the data
    console.log(data);

    // Retrieve the header information
    const headerObject = data.find(item => item.header);

    const header = headerObject ? headerObject.header : null;

    console.log(header);
  })
  .catch(error => {
    console.error("Error:", error);
  });

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabpane >}}
       

### Retrieving the result set at a particular timestamp
**NOTE:** This feature requires the `view` field of the Continuous Query to be set to `true`, and the `view/retentionPolicy` field to be set to `all` or `expire`. For more information, please navigate to this [link](/concepts/continuous-queries/#configuration).

You can also use the Result Reaction to retrieve the result set for a specific timestamp, provided in milliseconds since the epoch.

#### HTTP Request
```bash
GET http://localhost:<servicePort>/<queryId>/<timestamp>
```

#### URL Parameters

|Parameter|Description|
|-|-|
|servicePort|The port on your local machine that was forwarded earlier|
|queryId|The id of the Continuous Query you are interested in|

> |timestamp| The timestamp to retrieve the result set from|

Reviewer 2: What is the format of the timestamp?

Author: It should be ms since epoch. I'll update the docs on this part
